As
I said yesterday, this is the field, field
where the light has to come. With so many
lights, the field has to be enlightened. And
this field which is enlightened is enriched
by nature, too. And when you were singing
I felt the clouds were catching the notes,
weaving them within themselves and when it
would rain, the rain will sing the song again.
As if the valleys were resounding so beautifully
and the echo was very gentle and filling the
whole atmosphere. Perhaps you are not aware
of the subtle, of the Divine, how much It
is anxious to work it out. But our trumpets
and our flutes and our drums have to be all
right. There has to be coordination, complete
synchronizing, then the melody is played in
a beautiful way. Clouds only carry the purest
water, the purest hymns.
So when we are spreading the message, we have
to understand that it has to come from a pure
source, purity is very important. I’ve already
talked about chastity part which is the Mooladhara,
which is so important today; you can see it
clearly how important it is. But that’s
not the end of it; that’s just the beginning,
just the beginning. But what we have to see
is something very innate built within us.
And today as we are sitting in the heart of
hearts that is Sheffield where the steel is
made, in the heart the steel, sometimes you
need a part of steel also in the heart. We
have to see where are we lacking, what’s
our basic problem. We should face it.
So as English we are, we have to think how
our brains work, are used to work, how traditionally
we have been brought to problems. When we
see around how we have accepted some things
which were very absurd and nonsensical, say
in America or in France and other places,
as if we have no personality of our own. What
did we give to others? What is the impression
people carry about the British? Hippies, or
what do you call these days modern - the punks.
What is it that we have to give? Is a honorable
image, is a honorable image of the British,
of the English. We have to be honored, we
have to be honorable people, and we must keep
our honor. And honor cannot come or cannot
be expressed if we are people who are cunning.
That’s very superficial, anybody can find
out if we have that cunning within us. Now
it has been a character, can be very cunning
- that’s what I discussed this morning.
Be careful on that, be careful. That’s a
trick of the ego, don’t fall a prey to that.
And that then works out in our languages also.
Now English language is a specially honored
language now because it is the language of
the Sahaja Yoga as well. Of course we use
Hindi, Marathi and then English. But English
is the language in which My speeches are,
so it should be honored. We must have a sense
of honor that comes by respecting. When you
respect yourself, you respect others. If you
do not respect yourself, you cannot respect
others. And that’s what I’ve discovered
that when people took to anti-culture and
all sorts of things the first thing they did
was not to respect anything whatsoever.
And yesterday only I discovered that the language
which is spoilt has come through this: is
fashionable to speak with a funny accent,
and I was copying that the Americans speak
like duck – quack, quack, quack. But the
English speak like a crow - caw, caw, caw
- and we have real English language problem.
Just now Nick’s wife told Me that she can’t
understand what English speak. I said, “Same
here, I don’t understand either.” It’s
a language problem.
One gentleman who came from India, very well
educated gentleman, did his MA in English,
he came back and he said, “I had a language
problem there.”
I said, “Why?”
He said, “They speak all kinds, they divert
it every way and educated people talk like
that.”
And was surprised that it has also come from
anti-culture, is a fashion to speak like that.
And I can’t follow. That means it is anti-God.
So you must respect your language. You might
be acquiring it from hippie stage, or you
might be getting it, say, even from Cambridge
or from Oxford or from public schools. Whatever
it is, whatever may be the source, either
it is aggression on the language or no respect
to the language. So in language, in speaking
the language, try to speak straightforward
English language.
Because we are international people. We are
not English anymore. We are grown to be global
people now. We have a global personality,
and as global people we have to speak a language
which everybody can understand. We cannot
speak cockneyed language. I mean in India
also we have lots of cockneyed. But Sahaja
Yogis don’t speak that language. You won’t
understand that cockneyed language that we
speak even if you are an expert on any Indian
language. So first of all, you must show respect
of your own language, more than anything else.
If you cannot respect your country, your language,
your literature, your sublime things that
are here, your buildings, how can you respect
anything else? This is your soil, which is
not to be aggressed this way. That doesn’t
mean we become nationalist, I did not mean
that, but to grow out as a tree you have to
know your soil and you have to respect and
be honorable. Where is that English honor
which I used to hear about? Is lost in the
thin air somewhere? An honorable person will
not keep back taxes, will not ill-treat his
wife, will not ill-treat her husband, will
not talk rudely to them, would be respectable,
will respect the children. First thing is
that he respects everybody’s freedom. If
he’s mean, then he’s not honorable. If
he’s not generous, then he is not honorable.
If he disobeys the law, he’s not honorable
either. Why should we disobey the law? I just
don’t understand. Actually English laws
are meant for angels I tell you, horrible.
But in that only the devils take advantage.
Doesn’t matter, laws are very good no doubt.
But why should we break the laws unnecessarily?
If it is necessary, all right. But for every
small thing if you start breaking the laws,
then we start breaking the laws of the Divine
also.
So we have to learn all these things. Let
us be in an honorable way, accept things which
are good but not fashionable. Fashionable
things - now it is fashionable to be like
this, it is fashionable to be like that. Now
what I feel that fashion only is accepted
by people who have no personality at all.
Tomorrow somebody starts saying that “You
put a empty tin of jam on your head.” Supposing,
I mean, if they say so, “You’ll look taller,”
or something like that. I mean maybe a little,
or let the jam falls on your face. Any clownish
nonsense we accept so easily. It’s all clownish,
and clowns are the only ones who copy like
this because they have to amuse people by
clowning. But are we to become clowns now?
So by this kind of diffidence in our character
that we try to copy others without understanding
what they are doing, we are becoming clowns.
I mean you can see many like that.
So the clownishness is now one of the characters
of the British. They really sometimes appear
to Me like clowns. Because they try to copy
others and whenever you try to copy others,
you are not the others. Like say we try to
copy, say for example, Americans - very difficult.
They are so childish and stupid, we can’t
do that good, you see. I’ve seen a film
of some Americans - I hope there are no Americans
sitting here - where they had about hundred
people, actors and actresses above seventy
or eighty years of age all shaking, you see,
and they all wearing funny dresses, you see,
half way missing, or this way missing, all
sorts of things missing, you see, less clothes
than normal. And they were doing funny dances,
you see, all walking with sticks and doing
shake. Or they were shaking already.
Now for English they love to use their umbrellas
I think. So they look clownish because you
don’t carry sticks, you carry umbrellas.
So trying to do something that is American
would be stupid. There’s no need to copy
them. Even outside, then why inside? When
you are a global personality, as in the nature
you can see a mango tree looks like a mango
tree. It doesn’t try to become like an apple
tree, does it? And then that mango, when it
is ripe, goes to the whole world. Whatever
is the best mango you can find it in Russia,
you can find it in America, you can find it
all over. That’s how it becomes a global
personality. But mango remains a mango; it
is not an apple. Who is going to import apples
from India, in England? That would be stupid.
So the personality that you are already, you
are a British personality, or English personality
or an Irish personality, or whatever personality
you are, should be such is presentable to
others to be cherished, to be enjoyed. How
is it possible? You have to be excellent,
first class, top personality. So this clownishness
must be given up. And it has come so much
in England that I feel the heart is absolutely
oppressed by this stupid things. But there
are certain nonsensical things which have
come within us which we should give up. As
I said, first of all the cunningness, then
in our language there should be straightforward
expression, no sarcasm. There’s no intelligence
in sarcasm.
Saying something nice to others is a great
art. Have we developed that art of saying
something nice to others? This art is to be
developed by Sahaja Yogis, how to say something
sweet and nice to others. If you can develop
the gentle method of saying nice things, then
later on you will see you will be able to
do nice things for others - little, little
things here and there. Like the little girl
bringing beautiful pink flowers one after
another. You are nice to Me no doubt, but
to each other and to others who come to us?
So how to say nice things, what to say, when
to say, this we must learn. And so we can
establish communication. Self-consciousness,
self-opinionatedness can never give you that.
“I don’t care, all right let him be angry,
so what do I care?” Very common expression.
But if you say to the person, “Why are you
angry? I do care when you are angry. What’s
the problem? Can I not help you there?”
Finished. He’ll say, “What sort of a angel
I’m meeting here?”
Like yesterday the fellow was very aggressive
and he asked Me about heaven and hell and
all that. I was least bothered. He was neutralized.
You must learn, this is an art which one has
to learn. Don’t be proud of your harsh tongues
and your hot tempers. Don’t be proud. “I’m
angry with him.” So what, is it a very good
thing to be angry with others? “I got very
angry,” you see, with very great pride they
will tell Me. “I got very angry for that.”
‘Why? As Christ has said, only one anger
is allowed: if somebody says something against
your Mother that He’s not going to tolerate.
But that, too, controlled. Yesterday many
were angry but it was all right. I know how
to manage things.
So we have to learn also to tell ourselves,
“Let us not be so self-opinionated.” We
have to learn a lot. There is so much to be
seen, so much to be learnt, so much to be
understood, outside also. Like British are
absolutely insular by temperament. Another
matching with them are Japanese, equal type.
Japanese also don’t talk much but don’t
absorb anything whatsoever. You can imagine
three hundred years English were in India,
they learnt nothing. Can you imagine? Can
you believe it? Three hundred years, generations,
seven-eight generations they were in India.
While here, when the Indians come, they too
have no personality. They pick up your dresses,
they pick up your language, they pick up everything.
They talk with the same slang and hundred
times they’ll say dirty words in it and
they’ll say, “Yes man, no man, what man”
- to a woman also, unisex. They have too much
absorbage. They absorb everything while you
don’t absorb anything. So these are two
extreme cases.
So as it is said in Sanskrit that what is
the difference between the swan and hamsa
and the crow? No, no sorry, crow is black
so I’m sorry - hamsa and what do you call
that? Crane, crane. What is the difference
between a crane - yes it is crane, isn’t
it Gavin, in the water?
Crane. So what is the difference between the
crane and the swan? So when they have to discriminate
between water and milk, then you can find
out who is the crane and who is the swan.
Nirak shira viveket. Vivek is proper decision.
So if you put water mixed with milk before
a swan, the swan will just suck in the milk
and the crane will suck the whole. He wouldn’t
know. So that is what is, again we come to
the same point, is discretion that we have
to develop.
[Shri Mataji interrupts Her talk to point
out people] There are people they are looking
out for us. They are lost there. They are
Sahaja Yogis. I think they saw us here. They
saw Me.
So it is the discretion that we have to pick
up all that is good, all that is nice, from
everywhere, which is such a lot, such a lot.
Like I would say, what’s nice about British?
Let’s see. Can you tell Me, who is going
to tell Me that?
Yogi: They have a great deal of tolerance.
Shri Mataji: What did he say? Tolerance. No,
no, not at all. It has to be a common quality,
whether you are a Sahaja Yogi or not. Tolerance
is the least, that’s something lacking.
Yogi: They’re good leaders, Mother.
Shri Mataji: You think so?
Yogi: Fair play.
Shri Mataji: Fair play I don’t know now
- that might have been. They were not very
fair with Indians, were they? They were not
very fair with Chinese, never. Still go further.
Yogi: Talking about the weather.
Shri Mataji: That would be bad weather. Yes,
I mean superficiality, but that’s not a
good thing.
Yogi: Shri Mataji, they have very sharp minds.
Shri Mataji: Sharp what? Sharp minds.
Yogi: Intelligence.
Shri Mataji: You’re near, but not there.
Yogi: Inventions, Mother.
Shri Mataji: Not so much, Americans are better.
Yogi: Subtle.
Shri Mataji: Subtle. I wouldn’t say that.
Not that, not so much.
Yogi: They want to help others.
Shri Mataji: Seldom.
Yogi: Manipulative
Shri Mataji: That’s bad.
Yogi: Loyal, Mother.
Shri Mataji: Loyal? They create disloyalties,
problems. They make people fight.
Yogi: Once they find something good Mother
they will stick onto it.
Shri Mataji: I wish they could. I wish they
could, but the way they disappeared, every
time we had programs after that what I find
everything disappeared. Sticking on quality
is missing.
Now is all right everybody has said? I wish
you had all those qualities, you could, why
not? So all the qualities that are desired
have been expressed, but what really are?
Should I tell you?
Scholarship. Scholarship. Sahaja Yoga? Read
everything. Sahaja Yoga means Kundalini, means
this, that, go to the library, find out everything.
Just know it. Scholarship. That’s their
quality. And this has to spread all over.
You agree there? The scholarship in Sahaja
Yoga has to spread all over the world. The
women specially want to compete with men here.
Very difficult, English women, not easy. Not
all, but some. They should become scholars
of Sahaja Yoga. I’m surprised people like
Derek or people like Hesta could not see the
point.
Scholarship is the thing and that’s why
they’re honored everywhere. They are scholars.
And see now, heart becoming a scholar. That’s
the integration of the brain and the heart.
We have so many scholars of Sahaja Yoga in
England. We might get one there and one here
and there. Like we can say in Switzerland
we’ve got Gregoire and Arneau. Scholarship
- how many are there? And very deep scholarship.
And that is what you have to develop more,
specially the ladies have to learn a lot,
is knowledge. To understand all the intricacies,
all the delicacies, and to work it out in
that scholarly way, is the way you will really
do greatest service to Sahaja Yoga. And is
such a honorable thing to be a scholar and
once you are a scholar, this knowledge goes
into your head goes to your heart also. Scholarship
in every subject. Scholars are different from
inventive people. They may know very little
and can invent something, that’s a different
thing. But that doesn’t mean you go and
read Vivekananda and all that, doesn’t mean
that. But you go in every library, every place
and discover the Truth. Blake - scholar, so
many scholars in this country, most of them
were Realized Souls. In England we have the
maximum number, in the West I’m saying,
maximum number of scholars, who were Realized
Souls, in such a small, little country like
that.
In India of course we had saints who were
scholars, saints who were not scholars. So
the scholarship part is your responsibility,
and like a scholar you have to be above many
things. A scholar doesn’t stoop down to
nonsense. He doesn’t take to superficial
thing. It’s below his dignity to behave
in childish manner or to take to sex and all
this nonsensical ideas. But the basic quality
you have got which is something so great I
feel, because heart becoming a scholar is
something very great. It’s a balance, it’s
a real balance, and that’s the steel, that
is the steel of England, the scholarship.
That’s how a New Jerusalem has to be built
in, not the old one where they were only faithfuls
just going down singing songs and hymns, nothing
- but scholarship, the complete knowledge.
They know everything about Kundalini, they
know all about chakras, they know all details
about it and, if you may please, your Mother
has spoken in England the maximum number of
lectures, because there are scholars.
So preserve that, develop that, then only
you will have all other qualities which you
have described just now. But remember that
you are yogis, but scholars in your subject.
Take any subject that you are dealing with
- even ordinary thing, we can say if you are
a carpenter you must know everything about
wood. What is this wood, from where it comes,
what is it, what can be used for, what is
the density of this wood, what is the chemical
composition, everything you must know about
it. And this is what you have to give to other
people of the world.
Once you start doing all this, you will give
up all the malpractices which British have
taken to. First of all they are the worst
of all, is to create problems between two
persons - they are good at it. Like, now you
see now in South Africa what they did, create
problem between one shade of black with another
shade of black. Very clever. Now when this
scholarship was perverted they were the ones,
you know they were the ones who started this
idea that the blacks are primitive. They are
the ones who introduced this idea. The same
scholarship used for bad purposes. Who gave
these ideas were about four or five writers
who said they were primitive. Very nice - brand
them as primitive, because scholars after
all can brand anything as anything.
So it is necessary for us to bring goodness.
To bring benevolence in this world we must
write benevolent things, write something idealistic,
something higher, something hopeful, something
which gives them a new dimension of understanding.
All the Sahaja Yogis must start writing. Ramdas
Swami has said that, “Every day you must
write something.” Write diaries, write novels,
write articles, do what you like - poems,
poetry. All kinds of things you can do if
you just know that you have to be yogi scholars,
but not intellectuals. Intellectuals have
the knowledge of others, but scholars built
up their knowledge on the true knowledge of
others. That’s the difference between a
scholar and an intellectual. Intellectual
has nothing of his own, he’s a confused
person and he doesn’t want to say, because
he’s so frightened that if he says anything
that “This is what I think,” then people
might say that he is a man of domination or
something like that. You need not be a graduate,
you need not be anything, but that quality
is built within you, which is a very big thing
and is very much connected.
Now in Sahaja Yoga as you know that the heart
is surrounded by seven main auras and these
come from the brain, which is the seat. Now
in the center, at the Brahmarandra we have
got the Heart Chakra, all right? The heart
is here and around it are all these auras,
if you see in the brain. In the same way they
are surrounding the heart. So if you know
about them, it will circulate, the knowledge
will circulate, but circulate with love, without
any aggressiveness, without any showing off,
without any cunning, without any sarcasm,
in a full, straightforward, loving manner.
But for that we have to remember that we have
developed lots of antidotes in England. Like
the words I have seen people use very common
is: “That may be too much; it may be too
much.” They’re frightened. “One shouldn’t
say too much.” You should! When you say
too much at least little bit will go into
their heads. So you have to say too much,
say what you want. There should be exuberance,
exuberance of your ideas so that something
goes into their heads, they know that you
are sincere, you’re saying it sincerely,
you cannot contain within yourself, emphatically
you have to say things. That’s what everybody
did. All those who were great incarnations
said it with such concern, with such force.
In the same way you have to say, without any
fear. “Oh that may be too much, Mother it
was too much for him.” Let him be blasted.
Doesn’t matter. Say everything that you
have to say absolutely with full heart. But
when people come to Sahaja Yoga, when they
come for, say, a workshop or something, we
try to be the same party people, like in the
party you see, “What will you have?”
Then they will say, “All right, let me think
what did I have yesterday, so I’ll have
today this thing.” It’s like a shopping
going on.
No, you have to say, “We have this and please
have it now, otherwise you won’t have it.”
This is the time, let them say what they like.
Is important. I see sometimes your SDP conferences
and all this, baap re baap [note: this is
an expression in Hindi to express disappointment],
the way they speak, they just blast you, I
mean hammer in your head. And why should we
not when this is the truth? Why should we
not tell them, and talk to them in that manner?
We think by being gentle - all right gentleness
is different, but I mean to say by saying
less than I see, understatement is typical
English statement. “That might be too much.”
In Sahaja Yoga it is such a lot that how much
are you going to pour out? Can never be too
much, so be careful on that. When you have
to say it, say it in a very blasty way, doesn’t
matter. What are they going to do? They can’t
crucify Me this time, can they? They dare
not. Otherwise perfectly all right, nothing
can touch Me, and even crucifixion cannot
touch Me, you know that. So you better say
what you have found out in a big way and tell
them in a big way. Of course loving and gentle
manner, but tell them, the concern should
be there. All right? Now this is what it is,
one has to understand, that there is nothing
“Say little bit.” Then they think he is
a shaky man. But when they sing horrible songs
on the mike, eating the mike I say, calling,
“eating the mike music.” They go on, you
see, aggressing on the mike and people go
mad with it, they like it. I don’t say you
aggress, but don’t say anything less, understatement
is not needed. There should be not be any
balancing in that.
Those people who will be appeased by that
will not be good Sahaja Yogis. They cannot
come in the Kingdom of God. We don’t have
to be begging of them but we have to honor
them, we have to respect them, we have to
be kind to them. But we have to give them
what we have. Like in the family you go, you
get everything from the fridge and give it
to them, they’ll be very happy - take it
whatever you like. What a spread. But if you
put one little fish and two eggs for ten people
with one chili to say that it is Sahaja Yoga,
maybe a lemon, they will think, “What’s
this going on here? Wishy-washy stuff.”
Now that’s one thing. Secondly there are
words that people use very commonly: “That
is very fussy.” That shows your fears. In
Sahaja Yoga nothing is fussy, nothing is fussy.
Always it is so. “It is very fussy, it is
this is fussy that is fussy.” It is coming
to such an extent that people now like beggarish
existence; they want to dress up like beggars,
rustic, nonsensical things, worn-out clothes,
worn-out faces.
I was telling Gavin the other day, “Why
do you all like sand color? There’s no sand
here. Is something Arabic in you that you
like all sand everywhere?” As it is the
hair are blonde, face is sand-like, clothes
are sand. Mountains of sand, walking around.
Why not be colorful? Why not wear colors?
Sahaja Yogis must wear colors. Of course you
should not be dandies. I must tell you that,
otherwise you will be dandies, you see, like
wearing shocking pinks by men, and sort of
thing. I don’t mean that. But you shouldn’t
just go about with sand color and a grey color.
If you start wearing something nice, they
will also produce.
I wanted to buy a sweater for Gavin in green
color. I couldn’t get one light green. I
said, “Let’s have one.” I said, “You
look.” No, couldn’t get one for him. They
don’t make it - only sand. And I got it.
Or else grey. Already the sky is grey, faces
are grey, dresses are grey, they wear grey
suits, the horses are grey, the world is around
grey – all horrible. And then wear a grey
dress to match with it. So, there’s nothing
like fussy in Sahaja Yoga but you should not
be childish, frivolous, stupid. And you should
not be also dandyish, showing off. Like I
have seen people painting their car with gold
and all that nonsense, or wearing a bow tie
and a dinner jacket and walking on the streets
of Oxford Street to match with these horrible
Hare Ramas there, to make a contrast to them.
That’s not necessary. On this also you could
be scholars, you can find out.
About children, I’m very much worried now,
much more since I heard about this three-year-old
girl. And I have to say that your children
are precious, they’re wonderful people.
In the beginning they have suffered because
of you, but they come out of it, and they
become so great. But you must learn one thing,
is to be very attentive to your children,
don’t neglect them. Teach them habits by
which they do not learn things which will
destroy them. Like every child picks up everything,
puts it in the mouth. We too here in England
or anywhere in the West, people just put their
fingers in the mouth like that they will go.
Anything they’ll just - supposing they are
opening a can. Now the can spills out some
jam, so they put it in the fingers inside.
No. That jam can, might be having some germs.
So anything that is to be put in the mouth
you must wash.
That’s now has to be the law for Sahaja
Yogis, because so many germs, so many things,
and for children specially they must be told.
If anything falls on the ground it’s a very
mundane thing but you must learn how we tell
our children. Anything falls on the ground,
immediately you’ll pick up and throw away
somewhere and wash our hands. We’ll just
say, “No, no, no, no, no, no, not that.”
Even from the mouth, if something falls out
you are not to pick up. Unless and until you
really fanatically do that, your children
cannot be saved from all kinds of infections
that are around. India is full of parasites
and we have many more, I mean we are the country
where we breed and look after them and cherish
them I think. All kinds of parasites we have
had, politically also many parasites on us,
but all said and done, we know how to keep
out of them, you see, and that’s how we
have to really condition our children.
Secondly, never to leave your child alone
anywhere. Learn a lesson. At any cost you
should not leave the child alone. You can
leave it with somebody who can look after
the child, who can run a crèche, who can
do something of that kind. But pay attention
to this point that there should be no loneliness
for a child. Child must be made to sleep in
your room, maybe another cot, maybe crib.
When slightly grown up, still should be with
you, if there’s a grown-up another child
you can make, or some aunt or somebody sleeping
with. But don’t make children feel that
they are lonely. Psychologically it will affect,
and also physically there could be a problem.
We never, never, never allow our children
to be alone, do you know that, in India?
I mean we are ourselves surprised how the
children just go out. Now supposing some child,
say about five-year-old says, “I’m going
to a candy shop.” Nothing doing. Mother
will say, “All right, when I go you will
buy it, candy.” I mean when My daughters
were not married, till then they never went
out alone, can you believe it? Never. Even
to school if they were going, they were in
the car with the driver. Even if they were
going to colleges they were going in the car
with the driver. Never alone. And if they
were going, say, by buses or anything, later
on when they went to higher education, they
were going with friends. Safety of children
has to be looked after in this negative atmosphere
everywhere. We are very good because we have
this challenge all the time, so we are very
careful, and you people have to be now made
more aware towards your children.
But don’t spoil them, you spoil your children
too much. I know they are very joy-giving
because they are Realized Souls. But tell
them, “You are Realized Souls and you cannot
be dishonorable.” But not at the time. I’ve
seen that you correct your children when they’ll
misbehave, “Don’t do that!” That’s
not the way. Then you dishonor. You sit down
with them, have a conference. “We’ll have
a conference now,” you tell them. “We’ll
sit down.” So let them feel, let them sit
on their chairs like a conference hall, and
tell them, “Now see we are all Sahaja Yogis.
You are Sahaja Yogis, too, and the whole world
is watching you. You have to be honorable
children. You have to behave yourself, you
have to do this way. We have to share our
things otherwise they will say you are not
Sahaja Yogi. You have to have dignity.”
You talk to them, develop their personality
that way, so that they know they have to be
majestic, they have to be regal. They cannot
be cheapish like others.
Because all the time we say, “Don’t touch
that, don’t do that.” They don’t know,
they are confused. Talk to them, sit down,
talk to them - what is to be done, how we
have to behave, how to say nice things, how
to help others, how to share your things,
how to give your toys, how to keep your things,
how to be neat, how to be tidy. It’s a training,
that’s what you have to do. And children
also learn from your own behavior. Now you
tell your children not to drink and if you
drink like a fish, then how will they listen
to you? In the same way in Sahaja Yoga also,
you do not meditate, you are not disciplined,
you live in a very untidy manner, you are
extremely careless, you do not honor people,
your tongue is very loose, or you are very
sharp, children pick up. They absorb these
things so quickly. It’s amazing how children
absorb.
Once I had taken a child to a circus just
- he was a very good child, a Realized Soul.
We went there and the joker, you see, he took
out his upper pant just while going on a swing,
so it was a big feat, you see, a joker. So
we came home, he also took out his pant.
I said, “Why?”
He said, “In the circus how he did I’m
going to do the same way.”
Imagine, that’s the only thing he picked
up. I said, “But that was a joker, you are
not a joker are you?”
“No I’m not.”
“And better wear your pant.”
So children pick up wrong things because easy
to pick up that. So don’t do anything wrong.
Another is husband/wife should never quarrel
in the presence of children. If you want to
quarrel I can even lend you some sticks, you
can fight. Fight in your bedrooms, do what
you like. You can break the heads or break
the hearts or do what you like, but outside
your rooms you are wonderful husband and wife.
At least let your children be good, enjoying
husband and wife. Actually it is stupid to
fight because you must learn how to enjoy
each other.
So we come from scholarship to the scholarship
about children. Some people have to take it
up seriously. Of course there is a little
book which Louise has nicely done up, but
is not sufficient. Some three-four people
have to sit down, or some ladies could do
it with some doctor there or something. Sit
down with the full compiling of the ideas
of Sahaja Yoga about children. Another one
can do the education, because Sahaja Yoga
will be boring for you. What will you do?
So much to be done about the education of
the children. Is very important because every
time I go to a place, there’s a school being
started, “What have we to do for the school?
How are we to conduct?” Now why not you
people make some research and give Me the
ideas and I’ll put it through? I’m good
at correcting than creating, I think nowadays,
because so much I have created. Whatever I
have created is to be rearranged and consolidated.
So I can consolidate whatever you give Me,
I can consolidate, I can put right, I can
correct it.
So best thing is now to form a committee for
this. One for children, one for book on children,
on Sahaja Yoga. What Mother has to say about,
you can use My quotations. Then a book about
the education of children. Third book has
to be about the married life. That’s how
you can go on compiling, about the social
life, about the politics, has to come from
England. A series, so much to be done in England.
Because people read that, it can be always
translated from one to another. Is very easy.
So I would request you all to put your mind
to this whatever are your interests you should
work it out and put it in the language of
Sahaja Yoga. Every sort - sports, you can
take to gardening, or anything, even machinery.
Bring it to the level of Sahaja Yoga.
Like computer, now all the developing countries
want to develop computers. Now we must find
out what are the problems of computerization,
then how it is going to affect socially, deeply,
in the future, what can happen if we just
develop computers and nothing else, how if
it is one-sided movement then how the whole
suffers. Like that a new dimension, a new
all-pervading, solution of everything can
be done. And that can be a quite a big eye-opener
to people who do not want to commit the same
mistakes that you have committed.
I must say this Affluent Society and all these
books that Galbraith wrote was very helpful
to some people, and that’s how it should
be. So you can guide people who want to be
like you, and you can guide the people who
are like you and who have to change. It should
be your idea. Drama - what’s wrong with
our drama, what’s wrong with that and how
we can improve it. Everyone of you is capable
of contributing something like that. So those
who are interested in different, various type
of things, in this seminar you can decide
what one likes and what another thing - like
even racial discrimination we can take a subject
like that somebody can work it out. Why racial
discrimination has come, what are the bad
effects of racial discrimination? If it comes
from English, they will say, “What generous,
good people there are, how they understand
the feelings and how they …” That will
be very soothing if it comes on the other
side.
Then now we have a problem of women asking
for their rights and all that what you call
feminist movement - what is wrong with the
feminist movement, how they have gone wrong,
and all those things. In every subject, even
in economics and everything, you can go forward
with the scholarly ideas. You can take help
from other countries also who - we have scholars
everywhere. But we have maximum number of
scholars here. And this is what we have to
do in this land of She-field.
May God bless you all.
Should we meditate for about say, ten minutes?
Will be good idea, just to meditate and to
find out what chakras are catching, to find
out what side is weak. Now if your left side
is weak, put your left hand towards Me and
right hand towards the Mother Earth. If the
right side is weak you put the right hand
towards Me and the left hand up there. Now
if both are all right, when they normalize
you put both of them towards Me, all right?
For example, now you can tell because you
are in east end, what’s the problem of east
end is. Survey it. You should find out the
problems of east end. I remember you told
Me about some Sikhs, what they were doing,
drinking so much and doing all these things
which is against, against Nanak Sahib. And
all these things if you tell, the way they
run after white skin. Yes, that’s what it
is. So face-to-face let us see what is wrong
with us. What is wrong with you? With what
is wrong with others? Let us see as a witness,
not identified with anything. So if you tell
all those things you see - what is that, what
makes people that way? You go into it from
both the sides, and you can give real good
solutions, you can give solutions. For example
there are doctors who can make a book with
the divine knowledge related to the medicine.
There are psychologists, they can make a book
- Gregoire I think, Rustom has done a good
job, I don’t know. Now by the way I must
ask who has got Rustom’s book? You have
got? Derek you have?
Yogi: No I haven’t, Mother. I haven’t
seen it.
Shri Mataji: Somebody who is not here may
be having. Who else? Ask Maureen. Is she here?
Maureen? She’s not here? Ask her maybe.
Do you think so, Maureen may be having? No.
I just don’t understand. I think you better
see in your office maybe, Gavin, just have
a look, no? Because I gave it to someone,
because it’s not there in the house, can’t
find it. We had found his book, isn’t it?
No. All right, he’s a scholar, no doubt,
and I wanted Derek, you to read that because
really, it’s really dynamic. Dynamic is
the word for that. You can blast all the Jungians
and all the psychologists together. I must
find it out, otherwise somebody should write
to him that God knows where it is Mother is
very anxious. I must publish that book.
So now if you come out with sensible good
books authentic, worked out, you have to work
for a book, you cannot just write anything
off hand. Like William Blake and Sahaja Yoga,
relate it to Sahaja Yoga. Now before meditation
any questions, is there? Did you ask any questions
there? No one? Any question? Yes, what is
it?
[Yogi’s question is inaudible]
Shri Mataji: Loud. It’s so fast that it’s
like Portuguese to Me. Can you tell Me Gavin?
Yogi: He is saying there should be some organization
by which it’s known whether any particular
one of Your speeches is being or has been
transcribed, so that there’s no duplication.
Shri Mataji: There’s no…?
Yogi: Duplication of effort. Because he wants
for Your speeches to be transcribed from the
tapes and he doesn’t want to do one and
it’s already been transcribed.
Shri Mataji: Are you doing some… you’re
transcribing.
Yogi: Not at the moment Shri Mataji. I used
to worry – every time Shri Mataji has a
very nice speech sometimes I just felt like
transcribing it but I was worried maybe someone
is doing it already.
Shri Mataji: What’s it…
Yogi: He’s worried that if he does the transcript
somebody else may be doing the transcription
so it would be a wasted effort.
Shri Mataji: Agreed. Now who are transcribing
- they form a group. You are transcribing?
Who else, will you stand up, you also stand
up please. Now you know each other don’t
you?
Yogi: Mother I’m quite prepared to take
a list because I’ve got a computer.
Shri Mataji: What is it?
Yogi: He said he can make the list on his
computer. To make a list…
Shri Mataji: Yes I think amongst these four
who are transcribing, all right. You decide
among yourselves.
Yogi: But there are many more internationally
Shri Mataji and it should be advised to all
centers.
Shri Mataji: You see in other languages, which
are being translated.
Yogi: Even in English
Shri Mataji: Like say Australia - whatever
I have said there in Australia they should
transcribe. That what I have said in England
they should, in every country whatever I’ve
said should be transcribed by that country,
is better to make it systematic. All right?
Is all right now? So four of you here should
transcribe whatever I’ve said in England,
which is going to be a hard task. Some more
people should raise their hands, who would
like to do transcribing. Please stand up,
Derek and Louise, you take down their names,
take down their names. You give your names,
write in on a chit of paper. And now you form
a group and tell them how to transcribe. What
else? First of all you must understand My
Indian English, otherwise you can’t, or
they call it King’s English I don’t know
why but they say so.
Shri Mataji: Yes, how are you?
Yogi: Getting better I hope Mother.
Shri Mataji: That’s good you look better,
thank you. May God bless you. What is the
next? It’s very, very constructive. Now
editing, once you have transcribed somebody
has to edit it also. Not like Indians - whatever
when I speak I say sometimes, “You see,”
“Do you understand?” All these things
need not be there but they think that nothing
should be missed of Mother. But I would say
that something is needed. I mean, you cannot
go on just adding these things after all,
so we can remove some of these things, this
type of pauses that I’ve used. Because talking
is different from writing. But in any case
when you do it I’ll have to go through them,
before we publish them. But so many lectures
of Mine have duplicates, repetitions. So once
you have done, transcription then we can see
that, we can adjust. Sometimes certain things
are to be said once, sometimes twice, and
sometimes hundred and eight times. For example,
“I am not guilty.”
All right, so any other thing? This was very
constructive I must say. Yes?
Yogi: Mother in one of the Nirmala Yogas there’s
a little diagram which You have drawn of the
Kundalini coming up through the chakras and
going round two circles and then coming up
to the next one. I can’t find from it if
the Kundalini is coming up and going round
and then continuing up the same side or if
it’s crossing over at each junction. Supposing
I am doing the right side, is it coming up
and going round and continuing up the right
side every time, or does it come up the right
side, go round twice and go to the left, go
round and come up.
Shri Mataji: No it goes in a spiral way and
cuts it at a point, and makes a chakra. You
see it’s a sympathetic nervous system which
is left and right. It goes in a spiral, all
right? And it cuts it at a point because it
goes in a spiral - that’s the chakra. But
I think we have done that in one of the speeches,
is so. Once this is transcribed, that will
be a source. Then everything I’ve said,
all these things, I’ve said it in very great
details, you will have to locate it. What
else now? What is it? Yes, Gavin you tell
Me?
Yogi: What is to be done with the water that
is used in puja, afterwards? When we wash
the Feet, what use is to be made of the water,
how is it to be dispersed? Say at home when
we do a little puja and we just wash Your
Feet in the photograph, what’s the proper
way to dispose of it?
Shri Mataji: The photograph or Feet? Photograph,
you see, that becomes vibrated water, you
can use for any purpose, you can put it for
trees, you can do all these things external
use, you can use for anything. But if you
have cleaned the photograph and all that and
if it is a clean photograph then you can use
it for drinking also, is all right, can be
used for drinking also. Because vibrations
are such that they kill all germs, everything.
Because now for Ganges water we just drink
like that, no problem. It never gets spoilt.
You keep it for months together never gets
spoilt. Because falling from the head of Shiva
never gets spoilt, that’s the sign of the
River Ganges.
Yogi: He’s asking what is Your advice about
fasting?
Shri Mataji: No, you can fast but not in the
name of God. If you want to fast you can fast
but not in the name of God. God doesn’t
want you to fast. Nor does He want you to
eat like a glutton but, He wants you to enjoy
the food, whatever He has given you. It should
be: you should pray over the thing, you should
give vibrations to your food and enjoy. God
has given you everything and you should eat
what is needed for you. But you should not
starve, you should not fast in the name of
God. Don’t torture yourself in the name
of God. That’s very anti-God activity, I
think. Like poor fellow yesterday that Vivekananda
tortured him, imagine? He’s gone through
all that for four years, too much. It makes
Me really very sad that people are tortured
in the name of God.
Yogi: Should there be a magazine with all
the poems?
Shri Mataji: Yes, we have a magazine?
Yogi: He’s saying, “Could we have one?”
Shri Mataji: With the poems? Only thing I’ll
say, poems are to be very much still to be
put right. Magazine for Sahaja Yogis is all
right, but if you have to put it out, then
they have to be little bit, brought up-to-date,
I mean in the sense that they have to be more,
sort of, edited, and one has to work on them.
And the poems should be brought out as magazines
but they have to go through proper understanding
and things. Even sometimes people write funny,
funny types of poems also, like somebody will
say, “Sahaja Yoga is my rice and Sahaja
Yoga is my daal, and Sahaja Yoga is my meat
and Sahaja Yoga is my fish.” And I said,
“Next will be and Mataji is my food.”
You see they mean that it is everything, but
the way they express is sometimes really crude.
Yes, there was a poem like that I tell you,
and I got a fright of My life you see.
So, I would say that one has to be little
careful. You see there are two things always
in expression. First is creativity. Of course,
you have to be a creative person but you must
have the technique. If you don’t have the
technique, then this creativity looks bizarre.
So even if you have ideas, very poetic ideas,
you must have the technique of putting it
in. Prose poetry can be also very beautiful
but you must know the technique, you must
know the way how to put it across. Like you
may be a great artist as a creative artist,
but you must know how to put technically.
Supposing I am a great artist but I don’t
know how to handle a brush, how will I do
it?
So both things have to be there and that’s
what I think, that because of Sahaja Yoga
people are getting very creative and they
are feeling the exuberance and they want to
express themselves but the technique part
of it is lacking, and the subtleties are lacking.
So whatever poems you are writing is very
good idea, like some of them are very good,
but still I think there should not be any
crudeness in it, all right? So all those who
are writing poems, who would like to write,
stand up. So nice to see so many poets around.
All right so now, who will look after? You?
All right. You all know them, give your names
to him and send all your poems to him, all
right? That’s it. There should be nothing
childish, cheapish or anything like that.
Then for art, all those who want to produce
pictures and paintings, drawings, please stand
up, even the children. Chris, you’re going
to do that, good, and your wife too, she’s
very good. So let’s have Chris there. Chris
will you be in charge? Please be seated.
So it comes to that we have also two types
of people. We have people who are intellectuals
- easy chair Sahaja Yogis - as we have politicians.
They good at knowledge, scholarship. They
know about Sahaja Yoga. They write well. But
there are others who are active, very active,
the young, extremely active, they can work
hard, they can do anything. That’s a very
good thing, but I think we should try to imbibe
one quality that is lacking in us. Like a
person who is an intellectual, or a person
who is a scholar, should try to do other things
also, like postering now. So for postering
they will not go, those who are intellectuals.
That’s not good. Or anything like that.
Those who are painting, they’ll paint but
not poster it, or they would not like to write
the addresses.
We should be able to do everything because
we are integrated personalities. I mean I
can give lectures, I can cook food and I can
wash utensils and I can clean My house. I
can wash your clothes and whatever you say.
Perhaps may be something I may not be able
to do I should say, many things. I tell you
so many things I can’t do. You don’t know
My weaknesses, there are lots of things. I’m
very bad at signing checks, useless for banks.
Always the banks put Me into trouble, I don’t
know what they’re up to, and thank God Gavin
is quite aware of My weaknesses. So looks
after that part otherwise I would be sunk,
bad at money. Very good at remembering if
somebody has taken money from Me, but if I
have given something to someone I don’t
remember, very bad. I give something to someone
and then I don’t remember I’ve given it
and I appreciate it, it’s very bad too.
I do it very often. I’m so frightened now
I don’t want to praise anything because
mostly it is given by Me - it’s horrid.
It looks very funny isn’t it?
That’s one side missing completely in Me.
I’m very bad at say passports and things
like that and … what? Also, I don’t know
about ticketing, all these things I’m very
bad at all these things, you see. So that’s
how you look after Me in that part, is really
I just don’t know. I’m very bad at time,
now I don’t know what’s the time now.
Very bad at watch, it’s always upside down.
But there’s one thing good, that I know
Myself very well, and I know how to laugh
at Myself, so I never feel guilty, I know
how to laugh at Myself. I can’t learn now,
these things. I’ve learnt lots of human
things but now I can’t learn how to sign
a check, where to sign, what to sign, I’m
very bad. You can get signature on My death
warrant also. See I’m like that, I don’t
know I just sign I trust and works out. So
far nothing has gone wrong as such, much,
but this is what it is. So doesn’t matter,
one can manage. And that is how one should
look at oneself - not to feel guilty but some
things are missing.
But if you can acquire, other qualities also,
will be a good idea. And that’s what I think
should be the attitude towards Sahaja Yoga,
that no work is below our dignity. For some
people have such ego, “Oh I’m coming there
why not I have a room?” Such stupid people
have nothing to do with Sahaja Yoga, I tell
you. “I must have a special room, why shouldn’t
I have this?” This is absolute sign of a
stupid fellow, is absolutely a sign of a person
who has never known what is comfort, never
known what is money, never known what is luxury.
Is something cheapish like a beggar who just
starts demanding, “Give me five shillings,”
then he asks for one hundred shillings and
this and that. All these things - the one
who asks for things, is not a king. The one
who accepts whatever comes their way is the
real king because he’s mastered it. This
is what is the right attitude. That’s what
a Sahaja Yogi has to be. Who goes on grudging,
grumbling about small, small things is not
a Sahaja Yogi. Sahaja Yogi is a king, he gives,
gives Realization, the utmost, the highest,
all right?
What’s it? [Shri Mataji speaks with an Indian
yogini in Marathi - UNKNOWN MARATHI WORDS]
She’s giving a very subtle point about puja.
That when we are doing the puja, say of the
photograph also, then we should have all these
things like a kalasha and all those things
there, we should not just do the puja of the
thing - pratibha. So I’ve said. “You’ve
come here all the way over here to tell them
these things they don’t know.” So all
you see the deepam and all these things should
be there properly done, for the photograph
also, that’s in the protocol. So certain
things of protocol - now Gavin is becoming
a big pundit you know. He’s getting a scholarship
in puja business. So you better talk to Gavin,
those who have problems about puja, better
ask Gavin.
Yogi: Mother I was going to ask those who
know something about Puja should come and
tell me.
Shri Mataji: All right some of you should…
they have to tell something you better go
and tell him also. Yes, good idea. Chhaaya
has not come today? No. She has told lot,
then we have got… now she has come. Shakuntala
is here then we have got this lady, we have
so many who can tell you about this and you
can work it out. That’s good. So scholarship
of puja that should be, and those who want
to do puja now, stand up. That’s too much.
To know about puja, all right? Good idea.
You ask Gavin, we should really have about
different marriages, how we perform, what
are the mantras, what does it mean. All those
things I think we should really compile a
book on that, good idea. All of you should
support. Give your ideas, all right. Thank
you. I mean in the sense you ask a question,
“What should be done? What is to be done?
What is good?” So that he works on that
and we find out a common point. All right.
May God bless you. Sit down, sit down. Any
other aspect. Yes?
Yogi: Shri Mataji, I was wondering what was
going to happening about building work in
Sahaja Yoga, sometime ago we discussed Golden
Builders.
Shri Mataji: You have, you are a registered
society, aren’t you? Have you registered
yourself as Golden Builders? All right, all
those who are interested in buildings and
decoration and maintenance, please stand up.
Vicky, what do you build?
Yogi: Mother, the decoration side, if that’s
suitable and can be integrated into the building,
the decoration side…
Shri Mataji: Really, then better give your
names to Vicky, all of you. Let’s have it
because, you see, also I tell you John, I
gave him a good advice to John. I told him,
“Take photographs of My house and use it
for advertising for saying that this is the
house we have done. This is what we have done.”
For example, you can do it by showing your
film the way that I have taken the photograph.
I mean I have done this, all that you see,
and can use it as an advertising thing. So
that’s how you can carry album and say that
we are working with Golden Builders.
Yogi: One other area Shri Mataji, music.
Shri Mataji: All right. For music please stand
up. We don’t have Banam here. Is he here?
Yogi: Yes, Mother.
Shri Mataji: All right. Because I have already
asked him to do one thing. So will you look
after, all right? Can you all contact him?
Whatever is to be done about music, all right?
Please be seated. Now there’s one another
aspect is photography. Photos, is should not
be all filed. Remember what we have done.
Gavin you have to get all the names of the
people who have… you should give to your
leaders all right all of you. Whatever you
have said it, without hesitation I would like
to see. Now photography – those who take
photographs stand up. No, more. More people
for photographs. Many more. Those who have…what
are you saying?
Yogi: Those who have taken nice photographs
of Mother, I thought they would stand up.
Shri Mataji: Some of them? All right. Where
is Don?
Yogi: He is making tea, Shri Mataji.
Shri Mataji: He is making what?
Yogi: Tea.
Shri Mataji: So, all right. So Don … Harris
will look after that. Ray. You all should
contact Ray. Give him your names. All right?
Legal side is very important. So lawyers and
administrators, just stand up. No we have
here, what about you? You are a Custom Officer
isn’t it? Better stand up. Anybody police
officer, those who are dealing with government?
Yes, good. All right, you look after that.
Good. You know him or not? All right.
Yogi: Mother may I ask you one thing about
the important side of perhaps purchasing property
through Sahaja Yoga and maybe the benefits
that could be obtained through use of the
charity. We don’t have any knowledge about
it at the moment, but in Birmingham at the
moment, we have made some inquiries and now
Ray from Derby, he deals with the legal side
of many things connected with local government…
Shri Mataji: Can you stand up.
Yogi: …and he’s been most helpful in sorting
out our details referring to mortgages and
so on for us and has come up with certain
information. But also we’re anxious to know
what benefits may be accrued by Sahaja Yogis
if we can use a charity to do such things.
It seems that there may be some financial
benefits here and if we can get together some
information.
Shri Mataji: All right. For this part I would
say David Prall. Where is he? Stand up. Those
who are interested, buying properties and
charitable things and all that, who are interested?
Just get up. Where is Ian?
Yogi: Mother we have got some details about
the covenant thing from our accountant…
Shri Mataji: What, details about?
Yogi: Getting money on covenant. It’s very
much beneficial, tax benefits…
Shri Mataji: All right. So David Prall is
to be informed about whatever information
you get, and to get from him all the information
that is needed, and through him we’ll deal
in property problems. All right? So let us
have a collective thing, all of you should
give your names to him, and everyone who is
now appointed as the person in charge should
give us a full idea. Any problem with your
properties should go to this committee. All
right?
Now, there’s one more aspect which is the
most important and the greatest headache,
is marriages. So this has to be somebody international
and…You are in that photograph group, all
right? Who is in charge of photographs, Ray
Harris. All right? You contact him. Now make
something positive, some plans positive, make
it something, let Me know. There are photographs
and photographs and you don’t know where
they are compiled, who has taken them, where
are the copies – nothing. It’s all just,
everywhere, all right? So proper filing has
to be done, proper understanding has to be
done. For marriages Warren is the best I think.
Now Warren you should stand up and now those
who want to help in making marriages successful,
in the sense in advising people, in making
them understand, talking to them, and also
organizing marriages, future marriages, of
people – like a marriage bureau – those
who would like to help. Some elderly people
should come out for this. I would like to
have. What do you think Manta? You not stood
for anything, come along. Pat, where’s Pat?
Who else? They should be happily married people,
in a way. Yes, good, Sarah. Yes, good. There
are outside also. That’s for children. They
will be for children. Those who are outside
will be for children.
All right, so here they are, now please send
your names to him today. All these names must
be given today, in this seminar, all right?
Now for children, last and the most important.
Call them. You are a teacher, isn’t it?
You are teaching in a school. But just now
we are thinking of starting a school in Hounslow.
But where do you live? It’s too far away.
All right. Now how many of you who have children,
small children, and interested in them? Let’s
see. Now get up. All those parents who have
small children, all those parents who have
very small children. Get him please, get him.
I think David is the best for this. David
will you take over? Let David handle. All
of you should contact David about it. Now
all of you should sit down and only David
should stand so they should know.
You’ll have to also deal with problem children.
There are problem children. Now we have to
find out something where we can deal with
problem children. And about that I’ll talk
to you. Those who have problem children, please
get up. She’s better, much better now. But
what about you?
[Question from a yogi: is deafness a problem?]
In a way, in a way it is, because it is to
be treated, all right? So, those who have
problem children, also must be dealt with.
So you can have two things: where there are
problem children and where there are not.
If they are catching, if they are still not
enjoying life, if they have little problems
with them, or if they are catching from parents,
all these things are to be dealt with.
So on this point I have to say one thing,
when we have problem children is sometimes
the fault of the parents also or may be some
defect in them, or some sort of a wrong thing.
Now under these circumstances, we have to
understand that it is the right approach of
the parents can only help the children to
get all right. So whatever is suggested to
them and told to them, they are not to feel
bad about it, but to accept it and correct
their ways and methods and things will work
out. All right, so that’s a promise. Nobody’s
going to feel bad about it. Is going to take
it up as a very good advice, whatever we have
to tell them, so because we have to pay special
attention to this. Specially with ladies I
have seen if you tell them anything, they
start crying. It’s a water power which I
cannot overcome. I don’t cry so much do
I? I don’t know why people should cry so
much and upset everybody. So such people will
not be allowed to cry. If they are to correct
their children, first thing they are not to
cry and weep and sulk. Then only we can solve
the problem, all right? So, done. This is
also done. All right, let the children go
out. Because the children still are not peaceful.
We can see that. They are very noisy. They
are not normal, so you can take the children
out. I think most of them are problem children,
because they cannot feel the vibrations.
You could feel, you see. Did you feel that
when they came in, the heaviness? It was very
sad. Those who were supposed to do great jobs
are sick now. That’s because of the parents.
I think now I can go or what’s the next
program?
Yogi: Mother this evening we wanted to sing
something for You, some books.
Shri Mataji: What’s that? Can you hand it
over to Me. What a very sweet thing you…what
a sweet thing. Thank you. Lunch? I don’t
know. Am I supposed to eat lunch? That’s
another thing you see. I have not had lunch
so far, I think so, you know. So what song
Gavin? Why not have I’m Your Rakhi Brother?
Yogi: There’s quite a big job to be done
on taping…big job to be done on getting
all Your tapes transferred onto permanent
tapes. Did You want to appoint somebody to
help Germail with that?
Shri Mataji: Where is Germail? I didn’t
see him.
Yogi: He’s coming in the afternoon. We need
people who are technically well who are able
to spare time each week to copy many of Your
old tapes.
Shri Mataji: Those who want to copy My old
tapes and help, please stand up who know technical
ways of doing it. But we have only one machine.
Can we buy another?
Yogi: The machinery is adequate, Mother. They’ve
got enough machinery now.
Shri Mataji: Only one.
Yogi: Germail is well set up for copying.
It’s the people we need.
Shri Mataji: You have to come, distribute
among yourselves and [MARATHI] and there’s
no Hindi speaking people here? Chhaya can
do Hindi. They can go there to the ashram
and do it. [MARATHI] So Ian is not going to
be here permanently but Germail. You must
contact Germail, offer your services to him
and tell him that you would like to do that.
How many there are, who can spare? Derek you
got up also. Can you come to the ashram sometimes?
Yogi: I’ve got copying facilities in Cambridge,
Mother. They send me single tapes and I copy
twenty or forty at a time.
Shri Mataji: All right. Some people who can
spare a day.
Yogi: One day each week. Come on, there should
be a lot of people who can do it, in London,
at Chelsham Road.
Shri Mataji: Will you give your names to Germail?
Some more people should come round. It’s
a tremendous task, you see.
Yogi: All go back to 1974. They are all deteriorating
and Mother’s tapes are going to be lost
if we don’t do it quickly. We also need
to spend money on a digital recorder to make
it permanent.
Shri Mataji: That’s good. It’s very important.
Children are in a bad shape Left Nahbi is
catching. Wrong with, something wrong with
the mothers. What is it? Now what I’m saying,
this is to be done when I am gone, all of
you, should give your names to…remember,
I hope you remember. Because you stood up
and sat down, stood up and sat down, but now
remember when you stood up, you see. One may
forget.
Yogi: He’s saying that there must be some
people who would be prepared to write articles
about Sahaja Yoga for publication in the magazines
and newspapers, and we should make an effort
on that line.
Shri Mataji: Yes. That’s one side of it.
Newspaper cuttings and things now, I was thinking
of John Noyce if he’s here, I don’t know.
Are you? He’s the one who should be in charge
of that, John Noyce. Will you stand up? Now
will you stand up all those who want to do
that? Is compiling of all newspaper cuttings,
from all over the world, compiling all articles
which are to be published. You mean to say
in the magazines? What did he say?
Yogi: He’s saying that people should start
writing now, for publication and that it should
all be edited and sent in.
Shri Mataji: Yes. That’s it. But also we
have newspaper cuttings everywhere which are
to be put into one file and to be studied
and marked.
Yogi: That’s one job which is very good
for John to do. He’s very good at that.
Another team with David perhaps.
Shri Mataji: Now. For David is for property
and all that we’ve given him one job, is
sufficient to kill him with one job. But you
can join him in this, I mean in the sense
you can belong to that party as well. So now
those who want to compile all that is interviewed,
all the newspapers, every cutting and also
your own contributions, please stand up. This
is not only writing, but compiling. That’s
good. Valerie is good. For example also we
can say what we can do, how to have our pamphlets
and brochures and these are to be done up
to that point. All right? That’s one. So
we come to another very delicate thing is
contacts. Now so? That’s it. Contacts with
the television, and other publicity things.
Now whatever is our own publicity should be
done by John Noyce but to contact others and
all that. Valerie?
Yogi: What about John Glover, Mother?
Shri Mataji: Oh, where is John Glover? No
that’s for something else. But I was thinking
Valerie is better for this. Will you take
over? Please stand up. Now those who want
to go to the programs, if we arrange some
sort of a drama, something or we arrange anything
related to the - for the television or publicity
anywhere else outside, through other agencies,
please stand up. Good. Bogdan and John Noyce.
I didn’t see Bogdan, where is he? All right.
So you be one of the parties with them, but
leader is Valerie. All right? Please be seated.
But remember that you have promised all these
things in My presence. Practically we have
covered lots of things. Let’s see how much
we achieve. So Paul what are you in charge?
Computerization of everything.
Yogi: Not at the moment, Mother.
Shri Mataji: All right. You stand up for that.
Now here is Paul.
Yogi: I’m pleased to say, Mother, that the
equipment we make is selling very well in
India. We’re selling Marathi, Gujrati, Bengali,
Tamil systems, everything.
Shri Mataji: So all that sort of typing, of
computerizing, Paul is in charge. Now those
who want to help him in that, who are good
at computerizing, giving ideas on that please
stand up. All right. Who else? Germail, also
Germail. Good. So now please write down all
their names in one paper.
That you can tell later. All right? Brian
has done a good job. There’s a series of
seekers and actually in one of the programs
one boy gets Realization in front of My photograph
and they show My photograph on the television.
But that is in Auckland. That is in New Zealand
where we have a very great dynamic Prime Minister.
I think after Sadat, I feel he is another
person who is a Realized soul. I hope the
Prime Minister here also gets Realization
or we get somebody who is a Realized soul,
one of the two. I hope she gets it. Pray for
it. So can we go now? What’s the lunchtime
business?
Yogi: Lunch is coming, Shri Mataji.
Shri Mataji: Here? And nobody’s going to
eat now. I’m the only person who is going
to eat?
[Yogi says something inaudible]
Shri Mataji: All of us. Then it’s all right.
What’s that Gavin?
[Yogi says something inaudible]
Shri Mataji: Just … [laughter]
Thank you very much. That’s quite heavy.
All right. May God bless you. You can open
it and show them. That’s what they make
here, and I mean there was no need but they
said I have to remember. I would in any case
remember and but now that’s their idea,
what am I to do? Something that they make
here. That’s it. See. Oh what a beautiful
design. Is in Sheffield?
Yogi: Yes, made in Sheffield.
Shri Mataji: It’s beautiful design, isn’t
it? It’s better than what you showed Me.
That’s the third one. Now we put it here.
It’s beautiful and this I will see every
day, morning. It’s beautiful. Very beautiful
design I must say. You know we copied this
in the… we have got this design, we use
it in Calcutta. Really. Believe Me. It’s
beautiful. What a beauty. Four pieces you
got. It’s beautiful. Look at that. [applause]
Thank you very much. Thank you. I thank all
the Sheffield Sahaja Yogis for such a beautiful
gift and this I will have every day. Thank
you very much. May God bless you. You better
keep it back into the box I think, properly
done. It’s beautiful, isn’t it? You all
can have a look. Let them see. The design
is very nice and delicate. Who’s got it?
Warren, you did.
Yogi: I got it with [INAUDIBLE] this morning.
Shri Mataji: Really? No this I didn’t see.
The one I saw was, it has that design you
know. That didn’t have any design.
Yogi: They couldn’t get the one You wanted
so this is the replacement. This is cheaper.
Shri Mataji: Really. Sahaj. It’s from the
same shop. It’s such a beautiful thing.
And also very sensibly-sized you see. That
one was a jumbo one. All right. So should
we have some music? And, Gavin if you want
I’ll eat, otherwise I better go. I don’t
want to trouble you people because I had a
meal. No because … why to bother. All right.
So, let’s have this one. But
what a nice thing. I want to see the design.
[TAPE CONTINUES WITH CONVERSATION AND SINGING
THEN:]
Shri Mataji: Beautiful. Now, your suggestion.
Can
you bring it? All right. Will you please go
and get it? Yes, yes that’s great. Just
go. Those who have their instruments should
go and get it. Pat has come I think. He is
sitting outside. What’s the matter? What
are you doing there? Well, you better join
our company. Take him in the builders. [Marathi]
Please get your musical instruments if they
are outside.
The faces of Sahaja Yogis are so different
you know. They look so different. Every one
is a piece of art I think. So beautiful. What’s
she saying?
Yogi: There’s a new song written by Diane
from Sheffield.
Shri Mataji: Really? Great. Let’s hear.
Now bring it along. Yes why not? From Sheffield
we should have. [MARATHI] She’s written
a Marathi poem, so I’ll translate it to
you. She says that, “My child who is a Sahaja
Yogi is telling you, is manifesting knowledge.
I request you, everyone, that’s Me, request
you all of you, that I am the mother of this
child, and you pay attention to him.”
This is a typical, you see, a Indian, what
we call a kautuk, is the one where you handle
the child with fondness. You express the fondness
for the child. Now so she’s describing the
fondness for the child, I have. My little
child sonu they call it, is the golden child.
My golden child speaks with such affection,
sweet, what you say to the child’s talk
– chattel? Is it a good word? I mean Sahaja
Yogis having chattels. We can say the beautiful
talk of a child. You see child here meaning
the innocence. He speaks to you with innocence,
and listening to him, I’m saying, to the
people, listening to him, your attention will
enter inside. It will leave all that is outside
and will enter inside.
And
to tell [MARATHI] Nirupan is the explanation
of the Divine, but is said, it goes with My
word Niru, Niru is My name. So it’s a pun
on the word Nirupan – pana means the abstract
of Niru. To talk about that. So there’s
a word, Nirupan has double word. It also means
to explain the abstract of Mother, and Nirupana
also means explanation of Divine. “Oh God,
give him the blessings, I say. He is also
in this world living like a ordinary householder,
as well as he has achieved a Sahaja samadhi.
He has achieved the Sahaja, samadhi as you
know is the enlightened awareness. But he
lives in the world, not given up anything.
For the people who are ignorant, he has taken
the help of chaitanya. He is [MARATHI] It
goes beyond English. [MARATHI] Let Me try.
You
see you go on conquering, one after another
challenge to the ambrosia of Mother’s talks.
Take Her name and you can do it. It’s very
poetic. [MARATHI] In the eyes there’s light,
enlightened, and with that all the lights
get enlightened, and the Siddhapurushas, the
ones who have achieved the Siddhata, the ones
who are very great, higher souls have come
on this Earth now to see Mahayoga. They are
watching. Their spirits are watching this
Mahayoga of the children, of children that
are Mine. All right? It’s about. I am not
so good now I must say. We’ll have to sit
down. But Marathi language is very, very deep.
To bring it out is very difficult but I have
tried. [MARATHI] Just put it for her little
bit. [MARATHI - Poet sings in Marathi.]
Shri Mataji: Now the last bit I just missed
the point. [MARATHI] the eyes lit in eyes
of my children, they’re the eyes you see,
there’s a twinkle in your eye. The light
lit in your eyes is that of knowledge, and
when it illumines the [MARATHI] What are they
called? What are called clusters of lights
in the Heavens? What do you call them? Constellations?
Yes, yes, constellations, yes. And when these
lights are enlightened the constellations,
as the great evolved souls have come on this
earth as constellations because the twinkle
in the eyes they see and all of them have
come on this Earth to see the Mahayoga that
is working through
you people. That’s a good one. Very beautiful.
Thank-you. [Applause]
You read it from there, on the…that’s
better.
Yogi: This song’s been written originally
by me but I had a lot of help from brother
Sahaja Yogis in Sheffield and I need Gareth
Reynolds on the guitar. [Yogini sings You
are the
Ocean.]
Shri Mataji: Well done. [Applause] It’s
a good one. Very beautiful. Very good one.
Very well composed and very well done
and it’s really, I must say, also musically
it’s very well composed. May God bless you.
Beautiful. That’s the quality. It’s beautiful.
That is Sheffield. [Applause] Are you going
to sing? You’d better go and eat, and if
you want I can eat also. It’s all right.
So then music comes to a termination. I’m
sorry, because they have to eat and I have
to go back to London. Hope to meet you again
sometime, I hope so before I go to India,
I don’t know what is the thing but Gavin
is trying to arrange a big program somewhere,
again, hoping that in London we’ll do better
and some people will have some sticking plasters
with them. So let’s eat. May God bless you.
What a thing you’ve found I must say. That
company is the same as the one we saw is it?
Same style, is it the same style? Similar.
Ah. But they had no guarantee, nothing and
no design. This has guarantee? It has. For
how many years?